#summary How to get UvsChess, and how to compile it on your computer

= Introduction =

Google Code uses Subversion (svn) as its source code control server. You will need a subversion client in order to get the code. You will need a C# IDE to code and debug your AI.

Once you have an svn client, you should check out the project code from svn. Go to the "Source" tab for instructions on how to check out the project.

This project was built with Visual Studio 2008 C# Express. 

= Details =

==For Windows==
For windows, we recommend using TortoiseSVN (http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/) as your svn client. See the Source Tab for instructions on checking out the source from svn.

You will want to have Visual Studio 2008. You can get [http://www.microsoft.com/express/vcsharp/ Visual C# 2008 Express] version of Visual Studio for free. 

Open the UvsChess.sln solution file, and compile.

==For Linux==

For Linux, you may need to install the svn package. Depending on your distro, it may or may not be installed by default. Using your distro's package manager (apt-get, yum, zypper), install svn. See the Source Tab for instructions on checking out the source from svn.


we recommend using MonoDevelop as the IDE. It's free! You can get the latest version at [http://www.go-mono.com/mono-downloads/download.html mono-project.com] or from [http://www.monodevelop.com/Download monodevelop.com]

Open the UvsChess.sln file, and compile.
You can also run the build.sh script to compile the project from the command line.

==Mac==

For the Mac, the svn command line tool is installed by default. See the Source Tab for instructions on checking out the source from svn.

We recommend using MonoDevelop as the IDE. It's free! You can get the latest version at [http://www.go-mono.com/mono-downloads/download.html mono-project.com] or from [http://www.monodevelop.com/Download monodevelop.com]

Open the UvsChess.sln file, and compile.
You can also run the build.sh script to compile the project from the command line.