#summary Suggested layout of assignments for students using UvsChess

= Introduction =
Writing a chess AI can be intimidating for many students, especially when they're given everything all at once. This program is meant to last only a few weeks, but could be reasonably extended to much longer. Allowing more time allows the students to explore and experiment even more with artificial intelligence and high performance techniques. But for the original three week time frame, we want to break it down and give students weekly deliverables. By doing so, it will help them know where to start and in what order things need to be done.

== Week 1 - Random AI ==

See: [SuggestedAssignment_1_RandomAI Suggested Assignment 1]

The student should be able to deliver a working and valid AI and the end of week one. The AI must meet the following requirements. The AI must:
 * Compile and implement IChessAI interface
 * Be playable
 * Validate the opponents moves `IsValidMove()`
 * Generate a list of all possible valid moves for a given chess board
 * Return a random move from the list of possible moves `GetNextMove()`
 * Implement the Profiler for debugging purposes [http://code.google.com/p/uvschess/wiki/ProfilerHowTo Profiler Tutorial]
 * Implement the Decision Tree for debugging purposes [http://code.google.com/p/uvschess/wiki/DecisionTreeHowTo Decision Tree Tutorial]


== Week 2 - Greedy AI ==

See: [SuggestedAssignment_2_GreedyAI Suggested Assignment 2]

The student should deliver an AI that meets all of Random AI's requirements, plus these additional requirements. The AI must:
 * Use heuristics to evaluate a given chess board and assign it a point value.
 * Evaluate all the possible moves for a given chess board and select the best choice.
 
Note that the AI does not look ahead at all. At this point, it is still only looking at the current move.

== Preliminary Competition ==


The students should bring their dll to the competition. !UvsChess requires the opposing dlls to be on the local machine. We chose this design because we felt that a networked approach might allow some injustice in competition. Some students might have more high end hardware than others. 

The students will have to copy their assemblies to the computer that will host the competition. The assemblies should be place in the bin directory where !UvsChess is built. 

The preliminary competition should occur after the students Greedy AI. This should allow the students to test out their AI against other students. Students should not look to win necessarily, but should look to gain as much info from the experience as possible, via profiling and logging. The instructor may wish to extend the Seconds Per Turn value in order to counter the overhead of profiling and debugging code.

The instructor and students may decide to hold more than one preliminary competition.

== Week 3 - Mini-Max AI ==

See: [SuggestedAssignment_3_MiniMaxAI Suggested Assignment 3]

The student should deliver an AI that meets all of Greedy AI and Random AI's requirements, plus the following additional requirements. The AI must:
 * Generate a tree of future moves and opponents moves.
 * Use the Mini-Max algorithm to select nodes to visit.
 * Use Alpha-Beta pruning to prune unwanted or unnecessary nodes from the tree.

== Final Competition ==

The prelim and final competitions are run exactly the same, with the students compiling their dll and copying it to the host or officiating computer. The final competition should occur after the students have finished implementing Mini-Max. Students should remember to compile their AI in release mode. 